.TH XDEMINEUR 6
.SH NAME
xdemineur \- X11 minesweeper game
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxdemineur\fP [\fB\-v\fP] [\fB\-display\fP \fIdisplayname\fP]
[\fB\-geometry\fP \fIgeom\fP] [\fB\-m\fP \fImines\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIXdemineur\fP is a minesweeper game for the X Window System.
.PP
The object of this game is to find the location of the mines
hidden in the minefield and to mark their location by placing a
warning flag.  You have exactly as many flags as there are mines.
The number of flags that remain to be placed is displayed in the
top left corner of the window and a timer is displayed in the top
right corner.
.PP
The game is played using a three buttons mouse, as usual with the
X Window System.  The left button (button 1) is used to uncover
the square on which you click (hoping that a mine is not hidden
there).  The number displayed in an uncovered square indicates
how many mines are located around this square (for example, a 3
means that there are three mines within the 8 surrounding
squares).  The whole game relies on the right use of these
numbers.  The right button (button 3) is used to place a flag on
a square (this indicates that there is a mine here).  If you
click again with the right button on a square that has a flag,
the flag is changed into a question mark: this is useful if you
are trying to guess the possible location of some mine, you can
use question marks to think about it.  One more click with the
right button and the question mark disappears.  Clicking with the
middle button (button 2) on an uncovered square which has all its
flags placed around uncovers the surrounding cells which have no
flags (this will save a lot of time).
.PP
Finally, to start a new game, just click on the yellow face above
the minefield.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-v
Print out version number and copyright notice then exit.
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplayname\fP
This option specifies the name of the X server to use.  See X(1).
.TP 8
.B \-geometry \fIgeom\fP
This option specifies the initial size and location of the
window.  See X(1).
.TP 8
.B \-m \fImines \fP
This option specifies the number of mines in the minefield.  If
there are more mines than squares in the minefield, the default
mine number is used.
.SH BUGS
Please report any bug you could find in xdemineur to
<babafou@babafou.eu.org>.  Also, you should tell me the
customizations you may have done, such as adding new functions to
the game or making modifications to allow the game to run on your
system.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1993-1999 Marc Baudoin <babafou@babafou.eu.org>
.PP
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and
its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby
granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all
copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission
notice appear in supporting documentation.  The author makes no
representations about the suitability of this software for any
purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Marc Baudoin <babafou@babafou.eu.org>
